A very common use case in met/ocean forecasting is effectively distributing forecast model results to end users.  Usually the forecast duration is greater than the forecast interval (e.g. a 3 day forecast run every day), resulting in a collection of files with overlapping time coordinates.  Since users typically want to work with a continous time series (e.g. to compare with recent observational data), providers have traditionally either created "best time series" by cutting pieces out of the collection and creating new datasets, or used a service like THREDDS that has the ability to create virtual Forecast Model Run Collection datasets, which then allows users to access views like "best time series" or "constant forecast".   For cloud-native workflows, however, there is now a powerful approach that is more scalable, flexible and robust compared to previous approaches:  create virtual references to the model output files using Virtualizarr, append to an Icechunk repository, and use Rolodex to construct views like "best time series" on the fly using Xarray's advanced indexing capablility.  This is what we have done recently to support the CoastPredict/GlobalCoast/Protocoast project. 

GlobalCoast is a European-led  endorsed action of the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development, and GlobalCoast is the framework for the coordination and implementation.  It is seeking to establish a seamless, integrated, and sustained global coastal ocean observing and forecasting system. This system aims to improve our understanding of coastal processes, enhance the prediction of coastal hazards, and provide the essential information needed for sustainable management of coastal resources, addressing critical issues like sea-level rise, marine pollution, and the impacts of extreme weather events on vulnerable coastlines worldwide. 

To level the playing field for computation, GlobalCoast has an initiative called ProtoCoast seeking to enable cloud-native workflows for running models, making both observational and model output available, and creating tools and research environments for analysis and visualization.  ProtoCoast is using the EGI Cloud Infrastructure, and initial workflow testing has been done on the Pangeo@EOSC JupyterHub running on EGI, developed and maintained by the X project [ref, ref].  

Protocoast has several pilots sites that are producing both forecast model output and near-real time insitu sensor data.  One of these sites is the Gulf of Taranto, which has water level sensors telemetering data and the coastal ocean model SHYFEM running on a daily basis.  The SHYFEM model produces a 6 day long forecast every day, stored in a NetCDF3 file.  Step 1 of the our workflow is converting this NetCDF3 file in a rechunked NetCDF4 file, a process which happens on the HPC system where they model is run.   We use NCO to do this rechunking, using the command:
```


